.\" $XConsortium: binstall.1 /main/3 1995/10/30 14:05:34 rswiston $
.TH binstall 1 "" "" CDE
.ds )H Common Desktop Environment
.ds ]W January 1994
.SH NAME
binstall \- build tree build environment installation mechanism
.SH DESCRIPTION
This man page is an index into the build installation mechanism set up
by 
.I imake
for the CDE build environment.  
This mechanism was set up to allow developers to use alternative build
environments (usually from some previous day's build) when build trees
are unstable.
The mechanism extracts libraries,
headers, make configuration, and binaries from a build tree and installs
them in a designated location. If
.I installpath
is the installation location, 
.I make binstall
will create the following directories under
.IR installpath :
.I include
(and subdirectories), 
.IR lib ,
.IR bin ,
.IR config ,
and
.IR util .
The mechanism can also create any other needed directories under
.IR installpath .
These directories can then be accessed by a developer by pointing the
.I TOP 
of his Makefiles to
.I installpath 
(See Examples below).
Most components (including imake-oriented components not in any build
tree) can then leverage the libraries, headers, etc. in the binstall
path and build correctly.
.SH EXAMPLES
A developer can use the headers, libraries, etc. located under the
.I installpath 
by doing the following:
.TP 3
1) Create or copy the directory structure you are developing. It is
assumed that this structure is using imake. If there is no Makefile at
the top of directory  structure, copy one from any build tree for your
architecture.
.TP
2) cd to the top of your directory structure. 
.TP
3) 
.I make TOP=installpath Makefile; [make Makefiles];make
.SH FURTHER INFORMATION
Access to binstall paths may vary for each vendor site. For information
about the binstall paths available to developers, see each site's man
page of the form binstall_vendor(1)-> binstall_hp(1), binstall_sun(1),
binstall_novell(1), binstall_ibm(1), etc..
For information about the administration of binstall see 
.IR binstall (5).
.SH AUTHOR
The binstall mechanism
was developed by Marc Ayotte,
WTD-CV, Hewlett-Packard.
.SH SEE ALSO
binstall_hp(1),
binstall_sun(1),
binstall_novell(1),
binstall_ibm(1),
binstall(5).
