.\" $XConsortium: fnrclone.1 /main/3 1995/10/30 14:06:44 rswiston $
.TH fnrclone 1 "" "" HP-UX
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company OSSD-CV
.ds ]W July 1993
.SH NAME
fnrclone \- OSSD-CV symbolic link creation front end to findnewrcs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fnrclone
.RI [ \|options\| ]
.I <source>
.I <destination>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I fnrclone
is a ksh front-end to the
.I findnewrcs
program
that duplicates the directory structure of 
.I source
into
.IR destination .
It is usually used with no options.
.TP 6
The default behavior is findnewrcs -XLlmiA which causes the following:
All of the directories in 
.IR source ,
except any
.I RCS
or
.I SCCS
directories, are recreated as real directories in 
.IR destination .
All of the files in 
.I source
are recreated as symbolic links to
.I source
in
.IR destination .
Any 
.I RCS
directories in 
.I source 
are recreated as symbolic links to 
.I source
in 
.IR destination .
Any 
.I SCCS
directories in
.I source
are ignored unless the
.IR -C
option is specified.
If 
.I source
contains symbolic links, these links are resolved to their final
link point in
.I destination
unless the 
.I -S
option is specified.
.I Fnrclone
will convert read-only files in 
.I destination
to symbolic links if they exist in both
.I source
and
.I destination
and the file in 
.I source
is newer than the file in
.IR destination .
If the file in
.I destination
is writable (as in files locked by a user),
the file will NOT be converted to a symbolic link to 
.IR source .  
.PP
If the RCS directory is accessible, any new files in the RCS directory
will be checked out as real files in
.IR destination .
If the
.I -c 
option is given and the RCS directory is accessible, files that are
newer in the RCS directory will be checked out as real files in
.IR destination .
.PP
The 
.I -n 
option causes regular files to be copied to
.I destination
instead of linked.
The
.I -s 
option causes old-style behavior where the actions are placed in a
script file and the log information in a log file. The script is then
executed.
The 
.I -d 
option causes 
.I findnewrcs
to descend symbolically linked directories instead of just
recreating the link. This is very old behaviour, and probably used
infrequently.
The -f option allows you to specify a log file (generated by stderr)
containing the actions generated by 
.I findnewrcs 
and
.IR fnrclone .
.SS Options
.TP 8
.I -c
This option forces the checkout of a file from the RCS directory if
the file is newer in the RCS directory than the file in 
.IR destination .
It will also check out any brand new files from the RCS directory into
.IR destination .
This option only works if the RCS directory or ,v files can be accessed
by the user. In the remote source exchange, this is not true, and this
option has no effect so you may need to explicitly check out the
current revision of any file.  See
.IR Co(1) .
.TP
.I -s
This option triggers the following:
.br
\- The directory $HOME/fnrclone will be created for the user if it does not
exist.
.br
\- The stdout of 
.I findnewrcs 
will be placed into
$HOME/fnrclone/script.HHMMSS. This script contains shell versions of the
commands that 
.I findnewrcs 
would execute. The script is then executed.
.br
\- The stderr of 
.I findnewrcs
will be placed into
$HOME/fnrclone/log.HHMMSS. This contains a log of files that have
changed and any errors.
.IP
If the
.I -l 
option has also been specified, the log file will be duplicated
in
.IR logfile .
.TP
.I -S
This option tells fnrclone to not resolve symbolic links when cloning.
The usual behavior is to resolve the symbolic links in 
.I source
to a real file.  This option is handy when cloning multiple build
directories from a single working source when that source itself has
been cloned from a master source. The links in 
.I source 
point to the
master source. The links in the build directories will point to 
.I source
but not resolve through to the master source.
.TP
.I -C
Frnclone's normal behavior is to not clone SCCS directories. This option
causes SCCS directories to be cloned similar to other directories.
.TP
.I -n
This option copies files from 
.I source
to 
.I destination
rather than link them. This behavior can create some interesting side
effects. For instance, files that are symlinked from one path in
.I source
to another path in 
.I source
become unlinked in
.I destination
with identical copies placed in the two path locations in 
.IR destination .
.TP
.I -f <logdir>
This option takes the stderr of
.I findnewrcs
and places it into logfile. This file will contain useful information
on what files have changed and also errors from findnewrcs.
.TP
.I -d
This option causes
.I findnewrcs
to descend symbolically linked directories when traversing a tree.
This is an old option that may be obsolete.
.TP
.I -u
This option prints a usage message.
.SH EXAMPLES
Clone the directory structure in /x/cdesrc/doc/unity1 to mydir/doclone.
.IP
fnrclone /x/cdesrc/doc/unity1 mydir/doclone
.SH AUTHOR
.I fnrclone
was developed by Marc Ayotte, OSSD-CV, Hewlett-Packard.
.I findnewrcs
was developed by Dave Serisky, OSSD-CV, Hewlett-Packard.
.SH SEE ALSO
findnewrcs(1).
