.\" $XConsortium: nval.3 /main/2 1995/07/17 14:27:24 drk $
.TH NVAL 3 "12 Nov 1992"
.PP
\fBNAME\fP
.PP
\fBnval\fR \- a \f5ksh\fP name/value library 
.PP
\fBSYNOPSIS\fP
.ta .8i 1.6i 2.4i 3.2i 4.0i 4.8i
.PP
.nf
.ft 5
#include	<nval.h>

Namval_t 	*nv_namset(const char *\fIname\fP, Hashtab_t *\fItable\fP, int \fItype\fP);
Namval_t	*nv_search(const char *\fIname\fP, Hashtab_t *\fItable\fP, int \fItype\fP);
void	nv_free(Namval_t *\fInp\fP);

char	*nv_name(Namval_t *\fInp\fP);
char	*nv_getval(Namval_t *\fInp\fP);
double	nv_getnum(Namval_t *\fInp\fP);
void	nv_putval(Namval_t *\fInp\fP, const char *\fIval\fP, int \fItype\fP);

Namfun_t	*nv_stack(Namval_t *\fInp\fP, Namfun_t *\fIfp\fP);
char	*nv_getv(Namval_t *\fInp\fP, Namfun_t *\fIfp\fP);
double	nv_getn(Namval_t *\fInp\fP, Namfun_t *\fIfp\fP);
void	nv_putv(Namval_t *\fInp\fP, const char *\fIval\fP, int \fItype\fP, Namfun_t *\fIfp\fP);
char	*nv_settrap(Namval_t *\fInp\fP, const char *\fIe\fP, Namval_t *\fIa\fP, Namfun_t *\fIfp\fP);
Namval_t	*nv_create(Namval_t *\fInp\fP, const char *\fIname\fP, Namfun_t *\fIfp\fP);

void	nv_newtype(Namval_t *\fInp\fP, unsigned \fItype\fP, int \fIsize\fP);
unsigned	nv_istype(Namval_t *\fInp\fP, unsigned \fItype\fP);
int	nv_scan(Hashtab_t *\fItable\fP, void(*\fIfn\fP)(Namval_t*,int,int));

Namarr_t	*nv_setarray(Namval_t *\fInp\fP,void*(*\fIfun\fP)(Namval_t*,const char*,int));
Namval_t	*nv_putsub(Namval_t *\fInp\fP, char *\fIname\fP, long \fImode\fP);
char	*nv_getsub(Namval_t *\fInp\fP);
int	nv_nextsub(Namval_t *\fInp\fP);
int	nv_aindex(Namval_t *\fInp\fP);
void	nv_setref(Namval_t *\fInp\fP);
void	nv_setvtree(Namval_t *\fInp\fP);
.fR
.fi
.PP
\fBDESCRIPTION\fP
.PP
\fINval\fP is a library of functions for interacting with name-value
pairs as used in \f5ksh\fP.
It is built on top an the extensible hashing library facility
in \f5libast\fP.
Each name-value pair is represented by a
type named \f5Namval_t\fP. 
A \f5Namval_t\fP contains the name, value and
attributes of a variable.
The following attributes can be associated with a name-value pair:
.IP
\f5NV_EXPORT\fP:
The export attribute.
.IP
\f5NV_RDONLY\fP:
The readonly attribute.
.IP
\f5NV_LTOU\fP:
Lower case characters are converted to upper case characters.
.IP
\f5NV_UTOL\fP:
Upper case characters are converted to lower case characters.
.IP
\f5NV_RJUST\fP:
Right justify and blank fill.
This attribute has an associated size that defines the
string length of the value.
.IP
\f5NV_LJUST\fP:
Left justify and blank fill.
This attribute has an associated size that defines the
string length of the value.
.IP
\f5NV_ZFILL\fP:
Without \f5NV_LJUST\fP, right justifies and fills with leading zeros.
With \f5NV_LJUST\fP, left justify and strip leading zeros.
Left justify and blank fill.
This attribute has an associated size that defines the
string length of the value.
.IP
\f5NV_TAGGED\fP:
Indicates the tagged attribute.
.IP
\f5NV_INTEGER\fP:
Causes value to be represented by a number.
This attribute has an associated number that defines the
arithmetic base to be used when the value is expanded as a string.
.IP
\f5NV_DOUBLE\fP:
Used in conjunction with \f5NV_INTEGER\fP to cause value
to be stored as a double precision floating point number.
This attribute has an associated number that defines the
number of places after the decimal point to be used when
the value is expanded as a string.
.IP
\f5NV_EXPNOTE\fP:
Used in conjunction with \f5NV_INTEGER\fP and \f5NV_DOUBLE\fP to
cause the value to be represented in scientific notation when
expanded as a string.
This attribute has an associated number that defines the
the precision of the mantissa.
.IP
\f5NV_REF\fP:
The name-value pair is a name reference variable.
.PP
The function \f5nv_namset()\fP returns a pointer to a name-value
pair corresponding to the given \fIname\fP.
If a name-value pair by this name does not already exist, it is
created unless \fItype\fP contains the \f5NV_NOADD\fP flag.
If the first identifier in \fIname\fP is a reference and is not
preceded by a \fB.\fP,
it will be replaced by the value of the reference
to find the name of a variable.
Unless \fItype\fP contains the \f5NV_REF\fP flag,
if the name-value pair give by \fIname\fP has the \f5NV_REF\fP
attribute, it will be replaced by the variable whose name
is the value of this name-value pair.
Unless prohibited by the \fItype\fP argument,
the \f5name\fP variable can contain an \f5=\fP
and a value that will be assigned to the name-value pair.
The argument \fItable\fP defines the table to search.
A \f5NULL\fP value causes the shell variable table to be searched.
The \fItype\fP argument consists of the bitwise-or of zero or more
of the following and zero or more of the attributes listed above.
.IP
\f5NV_VARNAME\fP:
An invalid variable name causes an error.
.IP
\f5NV_IDENTIFIER\fP:
An variable name that is not an identifier causes an error.
.IP
\f5NV_NOASSIGN\fP:
The \f5name\fP argument cannot contain an assignment.
.IP
\f5NV_ARRAY\fP:
The \f5name\fP argument cannot contain a subscript.
.IP
\f5NV_REF\fP:
Do not follow references when finding the name-value pair.
.IP
\f5NV_NOADD\fP:
The name-value pair will not be added if it doesn't exist.
Instead a \f5NULL\fP pointer will be returned.
.IP
\f5NV_NOSCOPE\fP:
Only the top level scope is used.
.PP
The \f5nv_search()\fP function returns a pointer
pointer to the name-value pair corresponding to the given name.
The \fItable\fP argument must always be specified.
The \fItype\fP argument must either be \f50\fP or \f5NV_ADD\fP.
A value of \f50\fP causes a \f5NULL\fP pointer to be returned
if the name-value pair does not already exist, whereas the value
\f5NV_ADD\fP causes the name-value pair to be created if it
does not already exist.
There is no validity check performed on the \fIname\fP argument.
.PP
The \f5nv_name()\fP function returns the name of the given name-value
pair \fInp\fP.
The \f5nv_getval()\fP function returns the value of the given
name-value pair as a string.  A \f5NULL\fP return value indicates
that the name-value pair is unset.
The \f5nv_getnum()\fP function returns the value of the given
name-value pair as a double precision number.
For name-value pairs without the \f5NV_INTEGER\fP attribute,
the string value is evaluated as an arithmetic expression to
arrive at a numerical value.
.PP
The \f5nv_putval()\fP function is used to assign a \fIvalue\fP to
the name-value pair \fInp\fP.
The \fItype\fP argument consists zero or more of the bitwise-or
of \f5NV_INTEGER\fP and \f5NV_RDONLY\fP.
The presence of \f5NV_RDONLY\fP allows the assignment to occur
even if the name-value pair has the \f5NV_RDONLY\fP attribute.
The presence of \f5NV_INTEGER\fP indicates that the \fIvalue\fP
argument is actually a pointer to a double precision number
containing the value for this name-value pair.
In all cases, a  copy of the value is stored as the value for
\fInp\fP.
.PP
The \f5nv_istype()\fP function can test whether or not any of
the attributes given by \fItype\fP is set.
The attribute \f5NV_ARRAY\fP can be used to test whether
or not the given name-value pair is an array.
The \f5nv_newtype()\fP function can be used to change the
attributes of the given name-value pair.
The \fIsize\fP argument is needed for attributes that require
an additional argument.
Changing the attribute may require changing the value
to agree with the new type.
For an array variable, each of the values will be changed.
.PP
A user can intercept the lookup and assignment operations by
supplying their own discipline.
A discipline is a set of functions that override the getting
and putting of values to a name-value pair.
A discipline is defined by the type
\f5Namfun_t\fP which contains the following public fields:
.nf
      \f5void   (*putval)();\fP
      \f5char   *(*getval)();\fP
      \f5double  (*getnum)();\fP
      \f5char   (*settrap)();\fP
      \f5Namval_t (*create)();\fP
.fi
To create a discipline, a user creates an instance of the type
\f5Namfun_t\fP and assigns functions to one or more of these
fields.  The remaining fields must be \f50\fP. 
The instance must be at the beginning of a structure that contains
additional fields that are used within the discipline functions.
The discipline is installed or removed with the
\f5nv_stack()\fP function.
The \fIgetval\fP\f5()\fP discipline function is called with a pointer
to the name-value pair, \fInp\fP, and a pointer to the discipline,
\fIfp\fP.
Inside the \fIgetval\fP\f5()\fP function, the \f5nv_get()\fP function
can be used to get the value of the name-value pair that
would have resulted if the discipline were not used.
The \fIgetnum()\fP discipline is called whenever a numerical
value is needed for the name-value pair \fInp\fP.
The \fIputval\fP\f5()\fP discipline function is used to
override the assignment of values
to a name-value pair.  When a name-value pair is unset, \fIputval\fP\f5()\fP
is called with \fIvalue\fP set to \f5NULL\fP. 
The \f5nv_putv()\fP function is used within the \fIputval\fP\f5()\fP
to perform the assignment that would have occurred
if the discipline has not been installed.
.PP
The \fIcreate\fP\f5()\fP discipline function is called from
\f5nv_namset\fP\f5()\fP when the name-value pair for name containing a
.B \s+2.\s-2
doesn't exist.
This function is passed the name-value pointer of the longest
parent name-value pair that exists, plus the remaining string.
The \fIcreate\fP\f5()\fP discipline function
must return the created name-value pair, otherwise the default action
will be taken.
The \f5nv_create()\fP function may be called within
the \fIcreate\fP\f5()\fP
discipline function
to perform the action that would have occurred
by an earlier discipline.
.PP
The \fIsettrap\fP\f5()\fP discipline function is used in conjunction with
user defined discipline shell functions whose are of the form
\fIvarname\fP\f5.\fP\fIevent\fP.
Whenever a function whose name is of the form \fIvarname\fP\f5.\fP\fIevent\fP,
is defined the \fIsettrap\fP\f5()\fP function is invoked with the same
argument format as \f5nv_settrap\fP\f5()\fP.
If the given event \fIe\fP is known by this discipline,
then the value of the action associated without the event should be returned.
Otherwise, this discipline function
should return the value of \f5nv_settrap()\fP. The \f5nv_settrap()\fP invokes
earlier disciplines to find the given event.
If the event \fIe\fP is NULL, the \fIsettrap\fP\f5()\fP must return the
name of the trap that follows the event name given by
\fIa\fP.  If \fIa\fP is also NULL, the name of the first event
must be returned.
.PP
The \f5nv_scan()\fP function is used to walk through
all name-value pairs in the table given by \fItable\fP.
If \fIfn\fP is non-zero, then this function will be executed
for each name-value pair in the table. 
The number of elements in the table will be returned.
.PP
The \f5nv_aindex()\fP function returns
the current index for
the indexed array given by the name-value pair pointer \fInp\fP. 
The return value is negative if \fInp\fP refers to
an associative array.
.PP
The \f5nv_setarray()\fP function is used to create an associative array
from a name-value pair node.
The function \fIfun\fP defines the semantics of the associative
array.
Using \fIfun\fP equal to \f5nv_associative()\fP implements the default
associative array semantics
that is used with \f5typeset\ -A\fP.
This function \fIfun\fP will be called with third argument as follows:
.IP
\f5NV_AINIT\fP:
This will be called at initialization.
The function you supply must return a pointer to a structure
that contains the type \f5Namarr_t\fP as the first element.
All other calls receive this value as an argument.
.IP
\f5NV_AFREE\fP:
This will be called after all elements of the name-value pair have been
deleted and the array is to be freed.
.IP
\f5NV_ADELETE\fP:
The current element should be deleted.
.IP
\f5NV_ANEXT\fP:
This means that the array subscript should be advanced to the
next subscript.  A \f5NULL\fP return indicates that there are
no more subscripts.
.IP
\f5NV_ANAME\fP:
The name of the current subscript must be returned.
.PP
If \fInp\fP refers to an array,
the \f5nv_getsub()\fP returns a pointer to
the name of the current subscript.
Otherwise, \f5nv_subscript()\fP
returns \f5NULL\fP.
.PP
The \f5nv_putsub()\fP function is used to
set the subscript for the next reference to \f5np\fP.
If the \f5name\fP argument is not \f5NULL\fP,
it defines the value of the next subscript. 
The \f5mode\fP argument can contain one or more of the following flags:
.IP
\f5ARRAY_ADD\fP:
Add the subscript if not found.
Otherwise, \f5nv_putsub()\fP returns \f5NULL\fP if the
given subscript is not found.
.IP
\f5ARRAY_SCAN\fP:
Begin a walk through the subscripts starting at the subscript
given by \f5name\fP if given.  Otherwise,
the walk is started from the beginning.
The \f5nv_nextsub()\fP function is used to advance to the
next subscript.
It returns 0 if there are no more subscripts or if called
when not in a scan.
.IP
\f5ARRAY_UNDEF\fP:
This causes any current scan to terminate and leaves the
subscript in an undefined state.
.PP
If \f5ARRAY_ADD\fP is not given and the subscript
does not exist, a \f5NULL\fP value is returned.
.PP
The \f5nv_setref()\fP function makes the name-value pair \f5np\fP
into a reference to the variable whose name is given by
the value of \f5np\fP.
.PP
The \f5nv_setvtree()\fP function makes the name-value pair \f5np\fP
into a tree structured variable so that \f5nv_getval()\fP
will return a string containing all the names and values of
children nodes in a format that can be used in
a shell compound assignment.
.PP
\fBAUTHOR\fP
David G. Korn (dgk@research.att.com).
