.\" $XConsortium: sfdisc.3 /main/2 1996/10/29 15:10:58 drk $
.de L		\" literal font
.ft 5
.it 1 }N
.if !\\$1 \&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6
..
.de LR
.}S 5 1 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de LI
.}S 5 3 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de RL
.}S 1 5 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de EX		\" start example
.ta 1i 2i 3i 4i 5i 6i
.PP
.RS 
.PD 0
.ft 5
.nf
..
.de EE		\" end example
.fi
.ft
.PD
.RE
.PP
..
.TH SFDISC 3
.SH NAME
sfdisc \- some common sfio disciplines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.EX
#include <sfdisc.h>

typedef int (*Sf_key_lookup_t)(void* \fIhandle\fP, const char* \fIname\fP, const char* \fIop\fP, int \fIcc\fP, char** str_\fIptr\fP, long* num_\fIptr\fP);
typedef char* (*Sf_key_convert_t)(void* \fIhandle\fP, const char* \fIname\fP, const char* \fIop\fP, int \fIcc\fP, char* str_\fIvalue\fP, long num_\fIvalue\fP);

int    sfkeyprintf(Sfio_t* \fIsp\fP, void* \fIhandle\fP, const char* \fIformat\fP, Sf_key_lookup_t \fIlookup\fP, Sf_key_convert_t \fIconvert\fP);

int    sflowio(Sfio_t* \fIsp\fP);
.EE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.L sfkeyprintf
provides support for
.IR sfio (3)
.LI %( keyword [[:;=] op ])
printf formatting.
Rather than getting format values from the next argument, the
.L "%(...)"
style gets the format value by doing a lookup on
.LR keyword .
Output is written to the 
.IR sfio (3)
stream 
.I sp
under control of the
.L printf
format string
.IR format .
.I handle
is a user supplied pointer that is passed untouched to
the user supplied routines
.I lookup 
and 
.IR convert .
.PP
.I lookup
determines the value for
.I name
with optional information
.I op
and places the value either in
.I *str_ptr
or
.IR *num_ptr .
.I cc
is the
.L printf
conversion character
(e.g., 
.LR "'s'" ,
.LR "'d'" ,
etc.) and may provide a hint to the
.I name
lookup.
.PP
.I convert
is called when an format unknown conversion character
.I cc
is encountered.
.I name
is the keyword name from the format specification,
.I op
is the optional operation string,
.L 0
if not specified,
.I str_value
is its string value,
.L 0
if it is not a string,
and
.I num_value
is the numeric value if
.IR "str_value == 0" .
.I convert
returns a pointer to the converted string,
.L 0
on error.
.PP
.L sfkeyprintf
supplies two operations:
.TP
\f5:case:\fIpattern\d1\u\fP:\fIformat\d1\u\fP:...:\fIpattern\dn\u\fP:\fIformat\dn\u\fR
.L case
matches the string value of
.L keyword
against
.I pattern\d1\u
through
.IR pattern\dn\u .
using
.IR strmatch (3) .
.I format\di\u
corresponding to the first matching pattern
.I pattern\di\u
from the left is pushed back on to the 
.L sfkeyprintf
format input.
If nothing matches then nothing is output to
.IR sp .
Any delimiter may appear after
.LR case .
.TP
\f5:edit:\fIold\fP:\fInew\fP:\fIflags\fP[:...]
Performs an
.IR ed (1)-style
substitution on the string value of
.IR keyword .
Multiple sets of
.I old,new,flags
may be specified; they are applied in order from left to right.
In addition to the
.I flags
supported by
.IR ed (3)
are
.L l
that converts the substituted value to lower case and
.L u
that converts the substituted value to upper case.
Any delimiter may appear after
.LR edit .
.PP
.L sfslowio
pushes an
.IR sfio (3)
discipline onto the stream
.I sp
that makes the stream interruptable.
Read or write operations on
.I sp
fail with 
.I errno
set to
.L EINTR
when interrupted.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
sfio(3)
