.\" $XConsortium: spawnveg.3 /main/2 1996/10/29 15:11:17 drk $
.de L		\" literal font
.ft 5
.it 1 }N
.if !\\$1 \&\\$1 \\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6
..
.de LR
.}S 5 1 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de LI
.}S 5 3 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de RL
.}S 1 5 \& "\\$1" "\\$2" "\\$3" "\\$4" "\\$5" "\\$6"
..
.de EX		\" start example
.ta 1i 2i 3i 4i 5i 6i
.PP
.RS 
.PD 0
.ft 5
.nf
..
.de EE		\" end example
.fi
.ft
.PD
.RE
.PP
..
.TH SPAWNVEG 3
.SH NAME
spawnveg \- process spawn with process group and session control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.L "#include <ast.h>"
.sp
.L "int spawnveg(const char* command, char** argv, char** envv, pid_t pgid);"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.L spwanveg
combines
.IR fork (2),
.IR exec (2),
.IR setpgid (2)
and
.IR setsid (2)
into a single call.
.PP
.LR command ,
.L argv
and
.L envv
are as in
.IR execve (2).
.L pgid
controls the new process group and session:
.TP
.L <0
The new process becomes a session leader.
is called in the child context.
.TP
.L 0
The new process is in the callers process group.
.TP
.L 1
The new process becomes a process group leader.
.TP
.L >1
The new process joins the process group
.IR pgid .
.SH COMMENTS
It is possible to code all process creation (except for
.IR vfork (2)
hack like in
.IR csh (1))
using
.LR spawnveg .
The
.IR proc (3)
routines and
.IR ksh (1)
do this on systems that don't support
.IR fork (2).
This makes porting to NT and Windows a snap: a simple
.IR iffe (1)
probe provides a 
.L spawnveg
implementation using the NT or Windows process primitives.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
fork(2), exec(2), setpgid(2), setsid(2), spawnve(2)
