.\" $XConsortium: buildAdmin.5 /main/3 1995/10/30 14:07:56 rswiston $
.TH buildAdmin 5 "" "" HP-UX
.ds )H Hewlett-Packard Company OSSD-CV
.ds ]W July 1993
.SH NAME
buildAdmin \- man page information for building administration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B buildAdmin
.SH DESCRIPTION
This man page is an index to the man pages available for build
administration.  All of the following man pages are available by setting
MANPATH to include /x/cdesrc/admin/man. Also see the
.I cron_example
file for sample build administration cron entries.
.SH AVAILABLE MAN PAGES
.TP 18
.I master_build.1
Information on the 
.I master_build
ksh script that controls building and cloning of source and build trees.
This is the key script used for build administration.
.TP
.I remote_build.1
Information on the 
.I remote_build
sh script that can remsh the master_build script. This gives the
advantage of having 1 master build trigger area for cron.
.TP
.I cleanLinks.1
Information on the 
.I cleanLinks
perl script that will remove symbolic links to nowhere in a source or
build tree.  This tool is usually run daily in build trees that are
cloned from a source tree. If files are removed or moved in the source
tree
.I cleanLinks 
will automatically remove the old links in the build tree.
.TP
.I cleanLogs.1
Information on the 
.I cleanLogs
ksh script that cleans older files and directories from a directory.
This script is usually used to maintain a certain number of logs in
the /x/logs/build directory.
.TP
.I ListTheTree.1
Information on the 
.I ListTheTree
perl script that creates 3 files at the top of a given directory structure:
.I :TreeListing
which contains a complete listing of all files in the tree;
.I :TreeListing.locks
which contains a list of all files locked and by whom;
.I :TreeListing.changes
which contains a list of all the files checked in since the last listing
and who checked them in.
This script is automatically run on /x/cdesrc daily and the listings
come with the automatic source delivery.
.SH SEE ALSO
master_build(1),
remote_build(1),
cleanLinks(1),
cleanLogs(1), and ListTheTree(1).
.SH AUTHOR
.I buildAdmin
was developed by Marc Ayotte, OSSD-CV, Hewlett-Packard.
