.\" $XConsortium: pam_dce.5 /main/5 1996/10/29 15:41:52 drk $
.\" Sccs id goes here
'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
.\" All Rights Reserved
.nr X
.TH pam_dce 5 "19 Jan 1996"
.SH NAME
pam_dce \- authentication, account, and password management PAM functions for DCE
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B /usr/lib/security/pam_dce.so.1
.P
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "pam_dce" "" "\fLpam_dce\fP \(em authentication, account, and password management for DCE"
.PP
The DCE PAM module allows for integration of DCE into the system entry services
(such as
.BR login )
through the
.BR pam.conf (4)
file.
The DCE service module for PAM consists of
three components:
authentication, account management, and password management.
All three components are supported through the same loadable library,
.BR /usr/lib/security/pam_dce.so.1 .
.SH DCE Authentication Module
The DCE authentication component
provides functions to verify the identity of a user
(\f3pam_sm_authenticate\f1(3)),
and to initialize DCE credentials
(\f3pam_sm_setcred\f1(3)).
The DCE implementation of the
.BR pam_sm_authenticate (3) 
function compares the user entered password with the password from the DCE Security
Service (i.e., the DCE Registry). If the passwords match, the user is 
authenticated and obtains DCE credentials.
The following options may be passed to the DCE Authentication module:
.RS
.IP debug 15
Syslog debugging information at the LOG_DEBUG level.
.IP nowarn 15
Turns off warning messages about not being able to acquire DCE credentials.
.IP use_first_pass 15
Use the user's  initial password (entered when the user is authenticated to the
first authentication module in the stack) to authenticate with DCE.
If the passwords do not match, or if this is the first authentication module in the 
stack, quit and do not prompt the user for a password. It is
recommended that this option only be used if the DCE authentication 
module is designated as
.I optional
in the
.B pam.conf
configuration file. 
.IP try_first_pass 15
Use the user's  initial password (entered when the user is authenticated to the
first authentication module in the PAM stack) to authenticate with DCE.  If the
passwords do not match, or if this is the first authentication module in the 
stack, prompt the user for a password. 
.IP use_mapped_pass 15
This option will attempt to retrieve the "onc_dce_passwd" attribute from
the user's XFN context and use the user's initial password to decrypt
the DCE password stored in this attribute. If the DCE password stored in
this attribute is incorrect, then quit and do not prompt the user for a
password. It is recommended that this option only be used if the DCE
authentication module is designated as
.I optional.
.IP try_mapped_pass 15
Similar to 
.B use_mapped_pass
with two exceptions. If the DCE password is incorrect,
prompt for it. Once a valid DCE password is entered, encrypt it
using the initial (first) password and store the encrypted value in the
"onc_dce_passwd" attribute in the user's XFN context.
.PP
Note that both
.B use_mapped_pass 
and
.B try_mapped_pass
require that the UNIX authentication module (see
.BR pam_unix (5))
occurs before the DCE
authentication module. This to ensure that the user's secure RPC credentials
(for XFN/NIS+) have already been acquired.
.RE

If the user's DCE account has expired then an 
error will be returned from
.BR pam_sm_authenticate (3).
.PP
In order to authenticate the user to the DCE security service
.BR pam_sm_authenticate (3)
calls 
.BR sec_login_setup_identity (3)
followed by
.BR sec_login_valid_and_cert_ident (3).
.PP
.BR pam_sm_setcred (3) 
calls the function
.BR sec_login_set_context (3)
to set the DCE credentials after they have been validated by
.BR pam_sm_authenticate .
.SH DCE Account Management Module
The DCE account management component
provides a function to perform account management
(\f3pam_sm_acct_mgmt\f1(3)).
The DCE implementation of the
.BR pam_sm_acct_mgmt (3)
function retrieves the user's account and password expiration information from
the DCE Security Server and verifies that the user's account and password
have not expired.
The following options may be passed to the DCE account module:
.RS
.IP allow_expired_passwd 20
Allows a user with an expired password to login.
.IP debug 20
Syslog debugging information at the LOG_DEBUG level.
.IP nowarn 20
Turns off the warning messages displayed when a user's account and/or
password are going to expire.
.RE
.PP
.BR pam_sm_acct_mgmt (3) 
calls the function
.BR sec_login_inquire_net_info (3)
to retrieve information about when a user's account and/or password is
going to expire.
.SH DCE Password Management Module
The DCE password management component
provides a function to change passwords
(\f3pam_sm_chauthtok\f1(3)).
The following option may be passwd to the DCE account module:
.RS
.IP debug 15
Syslog debugging information at the LOG_DEBUG level.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pam (3),
.BR sec_login_setup_identity (3),
.BR sec_login_valid_and_cert_ident (3),
.BR sec_login_set_context (3),
.BR sec_login_inquire_net_info (3),
.BR pam.conf (4),
.BR pam_unix (5)
