.\" $XConsortium: pam_unix.5 /main/5 1996/10/29 15:42:45 drk $
.\" Sccs id goes here
'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
.\" All Rights Reserved
.nr X
.TH pam_unix 5 "19 Jan 1996"
.SH NAME
pam_unix \- authentication, account, session, and password management PAM modules for UNIX
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B /usr/lib/security/pam_unix.so.1
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "pam_unix" "" "\fLpam_unix\fP \(em authentication, account, session and password management for UNIX"
.PP
The UNIX service module for PAM,
.BR /usr/lib/security/pam_unix.so.1 ,
provides functionality for all four
PAM modules: authentication, account management, session management
and password management.
The
.B pam_unix.so.1
 module is a shared object
that can be dynamically loaded to provide
the necessary functionality upon demand.
Its path is specified in the
.SM PAM
configuration file.
.SH Unix Authentication Module
The UNIX authentication component
provides functions to verify the identity of a user,
(\f3pam_sm_authenticate(\|)\f1)
and to set user specific credentials
(\f3pam_sm_setcred(\|)\f1).
.B pam_sm_authenticate(\|) 
compares the user entered password with the password from UNIX password
database.  If the passwords match, the user is authenticated.
If the user also has secure
.SM RPC
credentials and the secure
.SM RPC
password is the same as the
.SM UNIX
password, then the secure
.SM RPC
credentials are also obtained.
.LP
The following options may be passed to the UNIX service module:
.RS
.IP debug 15
.BR syslog (3)
debugging information at LOG_DEBUG level
.IP nowarn 15
turn off warning messages
.IP use_first_pass 15
It compares the password in the password database with the user's initial
password (entered when the user authenticated to the first authentication
module in the stack).  If the passwords do not match, or if no password
has been entered,
quit and do not prompt the user for a password.  This option should
only be used if the authentication service is designated as
.I optional
in the
.B pam.conf
configuration file.
.IP try_first_pass 15
It compares the password in the password database with the user's initial
password (entered when the user authenticated to the first authentication
module in the stack).  If the passwords do not match, or if no password
has been entered,
prompt the user for a password.
.RE
.LP
When prompting for the current password, the UNIX authentication
module will use the prompt, "password:" unless one of
the following scenarios occur:
.RS 6
.TP 5
1.
The option try_first_pass is specified and the password entered for the
first module in the stack fails for the
.SM UNIX
module.
.TP
2.
The option try_first_pass is not specified,
and the earlier authentication modules listed in the
.B pam.conf
file have prompted the user for the password.
.RE
.LP
In these two cases, the UNIX authentication module will use
the prompt "UNIX password:".
.LP
The
.B pam_sm_setcred(\|)
function sets user specific credentials.
If the user had secure
.SM RPC
credentials, but the secure
.SM RPC
password was not the same as the
.SM UNIX password,
then a warning message is printed.
If the user wants to get secure
.SM RPC
credentials, then
.BR keylogin (1)
needs to be run.
.SH Unix Account Management Module
The UNIX account management component
provides a function to perform account management
(\f3pam_sm_acct_mgmt\f1()).
The function
retrieves the user's password entry from the UNIX password database
and verifies that the user's account and password
have not expired.
The following options may be passed in to the UNIX service module:
.RS
.IP debug 15
.BR syslog (3)
debugging information at LOG_DEBUG level
.IP nowarn 15
turn off warning messages
.RE
.SH Unix Session Management Module
The UNIX session management component
provides functions to initiate
(\f3pam_sm_open_session(\|)\f1)
and terminate
(\f3pam_sm_close_session(\|)\f1)
UNIX sessions.
For UNIX ,
.B pam_open_session
updates the
.B /var/adm/lastlog
file.
The account management module reads this file to 
determine the previous time the user logged in.
The following options may be passed in to the UNIX service module:
.RS
.IP debug 15
.BR syslog (3)
debugging information at LOG_DEBUG level
.IP nowarn 15
turn off warning messages
.RE
.LP
.B pam_close_session
is a NULL function.
.SH Unix Password Management Module
The UNIX password management component
provides a function to change passwords
(\f3pam_sm_chauthtok(\|)\f1)
in the UNIX password database.
This module must be
.I required
in
.B pam.conf.
It can not be
.I optional
or
.I sufficient.
The following options may be passed in to the UNIX service module:
.RS
.IP debug 15
.BR syslog (3)
debugging information at LOG_DEBUG level
.IP nowarn 15
turn off warning messages
.IP use_first_pass 15
It compares the password in the password database with the user's old
password (entered to the first password module in the stack).
If the passwords do not match, or if no password has been entered,
quit and do not prompt the user for the old password.  It also attempts
to use the new password (entered to the first password module in the stack)
as the new password for this module.  If the new password fails,
quit and do not prompt the user for a new password.
.IP try_first_pass 15
It compares the password in the password database with the user's old
password (entered to the first password module in the stack).
If the passwords do not match, or if no password has been entered,
prompt the user for the old password.  It also attempts
to use the new password (entered to the first password module in the stack)
as the new password for this module.  If the new password fails,
prompt the user for a new password.
.RE
.LP
If the user's password has expired, the UNIX account module saves
this information in the authentication handle using
.BR pam_set_data(\|) ,
with a unique name,
SUNW_UNIX_AUTHOK_DATA.
The UNIX password module retrieves this information
from the authentication handle using
.B pam_get_data(\|)
to determine whether or not to force the
user to update their password.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR keylogin (1),
.BR pam (3),
.BR pam_authenticate (3),
.BR pam_setcred (3),
.BR syslog (3),
.BR pam.conf (4)
