.\" $XConsortium: pam_dial_auth.5 /main/4 1996/10/29 15:42:09 drk $
.\" Sccs id goes here
'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
.\" All Rights Reserved
.nr X
.TH pam_dial_auth 5 "19 Jan 1996"
.SH NAME
pam_dial_auth \- authentication management PAM module for dialups
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B /usr/lib/security/pam_dial_auth.so.1
.LP
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "pam_dial_auth" "" "\fLpam_dial_auth\fP \(em authentication management for dialups"
.PP
The dialup PAM module,
.BR /usr/lib/security/pam_dial_auth.so.1 ,
authenticates a user according to the
.B /etc/dialups
and
.B /etc/d_passwd
files.
Only
.B pam_sm_authenticate(\|)
is implemented within this module.
.B pam_sm_setcred(\|)
is a null function.
.B /usr/lib/security/pam_dial_auth.so.1
is designed to be stacked immediately below
the
.B /usr/lib/security/pam_unix.so.1
module
for the login service.
.PP
.B pam_sm_authenticate(\|)
performs authentication only if both the
.B /etc/dialups
and 
.B /etc/d_passwd
files exist.
The user's terminal line is checked against
entries in the
.B /etc/dialups
file.
If there is a match, the user's
shell is compared against entries in the
.B /etc/d_passwd
file.
If there is a matching entry, the user is
prompted for a password which is validated against the entry
in the
.B /etc/d_passwd
file. If the passwords match, the
user is authenticated.
The following option may be passed in to this service module:
.RS
.IP debug 15
.BR syslog (3)
debugging information at LOG_DEBUG level
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pam (3),
.BR pam_authenticate (3),
.BR d_passwd (4),
.BR dialups (4),
.BR pam.conf (4)

