.\" $XConsortium: pam_sm_setcred.3 /main/5 1996/10/29 15:20:23 drk $
.\" Sccs id goes here
'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
.\" All Rights Reserved
.nr X
.TH pam_sm_setcred 3 "9 Jan 1996"
.SH NAME
pam_sm_setcred \- Service provider implementation for pam_setcred
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B cc
.RI "[ " "flag" " \|.\|.\|. ] " "file" " \|.\|.\|."
.B \-lpam
.RI "[ " "library" " \|.\|.\|. ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include <security/pam_appl.h>
#include <security/pam_modules.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int pam_sm_setcred(pam_handle_t " "*pamh" ,
.BI "int " "flags" ,
.BI "int " "argc",
.BI "const char **" "argv" );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "pam_setcred" "" "\fLpam_setcred\fP \(em request setting credentials"
In response to a call to
.BR pam_set_cred (3),
the PAM framework calls
.B pam_sm_setcred(\|)
from the modules listed in the
.BR pam.conf (4)
file.  The authentication provider supplies the back-end functionality for
this interface function.
.PP
.B pam_sm_setcred(\|)
is called to set the credentials of the current user
associated with the authentication handle,
.IR pamh.
The following flags may be set in the
.IR flags
field.  Note that the first four flags are mutually exclusive:
.RS
.IP "PAM_CRED_ESTABLISH" 26
Set user credentials for the authentication service
.IP "PAM_CRED_DELETE" 26
Delete user credentials associated with the authentication service
.IP "PAM_CRED_REINITIALIZE" 26
Reinitialize user credentials
.IP "PAM_CRED_REFRESH" 26
Extend lifetime of user credentials
.IP "PAM_SILENT" 26
Authentication service should not generate messages
.RE
.PP
If none of these flags are set, PAM_CRED_ESTABLISH is used as
the default.
.PP
The
.I argc
argument
represents the number of module options passed in from the configuration file
.BR pam.conf (4).
.I argv
specifies the module options, which are interpreted and processed
by the authentication service.  If an unknown option is passed to the 
module, an error should be logged and the option ignored.
.LP
If the PAM_SILENT flag is not set, then
.B pam_sm_setcred(\|)
should print any failure status from the corresponding 
.B pam_sm_authenticate(\|)
function using the conversation function.
.PP
The authentication status (success or reason for failure)
is saved as module-specific state in the authentication
handle by the authentication module.
The status should be retreived using
.BR pam_get_data(\|) ,
and used to determine if user credentials should be set.
.SH NOTES
.PP
.B pam_sm_setcred(\|)
is passed the same module options that are used by
.BR pam_sm_authenticate(\|) .
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
Upon successful completion, PAM_SUCCESS should be returned.
The following values may also be returned upon error:
.RS
.IP PAM_CRED_UNAVAIL 25
Underlying authentication service can not retrieve user credentials
.IP PAM_CRED_EXPIRED 25
User credentials have expired
.IP PAM_USER_UNKNOWN 25
User unknown to the authentication service
.IP PAM_CRED_ERR 25
Failure in setting user credentials
.IP PAM_IGNORE 25
Ignore underlying authentication module regardless of whether the
control flag is
.I required, optional
or 
.I sufficient
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pam (3),
.BR pam_authenticate (3),
.BR pam_setcred (3),
.BR pam_sm_authenticate (3),
.BR pam.conf (4)
