.\" $XConsortium: pam_open_session.3 /main/5 1996/10/29 15:18:42 drk $
.\" Sccs id goes here
'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
.\" All Rights Reserved
.nr X
.TH pam_open_session 3 "9 Jan 1996"
.SH NAME
pam_open_session, pam_close_session \- perform PAM session creation and
termination operations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.LP
.B cc
.RI "[ " "flag" " \|.\|.\|. ] " "file" " \|.\|.\|."
.B \-lpam
.RI "[ " "library" " \|.\|.\|. ]"
.nf
.ft 3
#include <security/pam_appl.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int pam_open_session(pam_handle_t " "*pamh" ,
.BI "int " "flags");
.LP
.BI "int pam_close_session(pam_handle_t " "*pamh" ,
.BI "int " "flags");
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "pam_open_session" "" "\fLpam_open_session\fP \(em request authentication"
.B pam_open_session(\|)
is called after a user has been successfully authenticated (refer to
.BR pam_authenticate (3)
and
.BR pam_acct_mgmt (3))
and is used to notify the session modules that a new session 
has been initiated.  All programs that use the 
.BR pam (3) 
library should invoke
.B pam_open_session(\|)
when beginning a new session.
Upon termination of this activity,
.B pam_close_session(\|) 
should be invoked to inform
.BR pam (3) 
that the
session has terminated.
.LP
The 
.I pamh
argument
is an authentication handle obtained by a prior call to
.B pam_start(\|).
The following flag may be set in the
.I flags
field for
.B pam_open_session(\|)
and
.BR pam_close_session(\|) :
.RS
.IP PAM_SILENT 16
The session service should not generate any messages
.RE
.SH NOTES
In many instances, the
.B pam_open_session(\|)
and
.B pam_close_session(\|)
calls may be made by different processes.
For example, in UNIX the
.B login
process opens a session, while the
.B init
process closes
the session.  In this case,
UTMP/WTMP entries may be used to link the call to
.B pam_close_session(\|)
with an earlier call to
.BR pam_open_session(\|) .
This is possible because
UTMP/WTMP entries are uniquely identified by a combination of attributes,
including the user login name and device name, which are accessible
through the PAM handle,
.I pamh.
The call to
.B pam_open_session(\|)
should precede UTMP/WTMP entry management and the call to
.B pam_close_session(\|)
should follow UTMP/WTMP exit management.
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
Upon successful completion, PAM_SUCCESS is returned.  In addition to the
return values defined in
.BR pam (3),
the following value may be returned on error:
.RS
.IP PAM_SESSION_ERR 22
Can not make/remove an entry for the specified session
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pam (3),
.BR pam_start (3),
.BR pam_authenticate (3),
.BR pam_acct_mgmt (3),
.BR getutxent (3C)
