.\" $XConsortium: pam_sm_open_session.3 /main/5 1996/10/29 15:20:14 drk $
.\" Sccs id goes here
'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
.\" All Rights Reserved
.nr X
.TH pam_sm_open_session 3 "9 Jan 1996"
.SH NAME
pam_sm_open_session, pam_sm_close_session
\- Service provider implementation for pam_open_session and pam_close_session respectively
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B cc
.RI "[ " "flag" " \|.\|.\|. ] " "file" " \|.\|.\|."
.B \-lpam
.RI "[ " "library" " \|.\|.\|. ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include <security/pam_appl.h>
#include <security/pam_modules.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int pam_sm_open_session(pam_handle_t " "*pamh" ,
.BI "int " "flags" ,
.BI "int " "argc",
.BI "const char **" "argv" );
.LP
.BI "int pam_sm_close_session(pam_handle_t " "*pamh" ,
.BI "int " "flags" ,
.BI "int " "argc",
.BI "const char **" "argv" );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "pam_sm_open_session" "" "\fLpam_open_session\fP \(em session management"
In response to a call to
.RB pam_open_session (3)
and
.BR pam_close_session (3),
the PAM framework calls
.B pam_sm_open_session(\|)
and
.BR pam_sm_close_session(\|) ,
respectively from the modules listed in the
.BR pam.conf (4)
file.  The session management provider supplies the back-end functionality for
this interface function.
.PP
.B pam_sm_open_session(\|)
is called to initiate session management.
.B pam_sm_close_session(\|) 
is invoked when a session has terminated.
The argument
.IR pamh
is an authentication handle.
The following flag may be set in the
.IR flags
field:
.RS
.IP PAM_SILENT 16
Session service should not generate any messages
.RE
The
.I argc
argument
represents the number of module options passed in from the configuration file
.BR pam.conf (4).
.I argv
specifies the module options, which are interpreted and processed
by the session management service. If an unknown option is passed in,
an error should be logged through
.BR syslog (3)
and the option ignored.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
Upon successful completion, PAM_SUCCESS should be returned.
The following values may also be returned upon error:
.RS
.IP PAM_SESSION_ERR 22
Can not make/remove an entry for the specified session
.IP PAM_IGNORE 22
Ignore underlying session module regardless of whether the control 
flag is
.I required, optional
or
.I sufficient
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pam (3),
.BR pam_open_session (3),
.BR syslog (3),
.BR pam.conf (4)
