.\" $XConsortium: pam_authenticate.3 /main/5 1996/10/29 15:18:17 drk $
.\" Sccs id goes here
'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
.\" All Rights Reserved
.\" Don't forget to enter .IX index entries for each function.
.nr X
.TH pam_authenticate 3 "9 Jan 1996"
.SH NAME
pam_authenticate
\- perform authentication within the PAM framework
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B cc
.RI "[ " "flag" " \|.\|.\|. ] " "file" " \|.\|.\|."
.B \-lpam
.RI "[ " "library" " \|.\|.\|. ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include <security/pam_appl.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int pam_authenticate(pam_handle_t *" "pamh" ,
.BI "int " "flags");
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "pam_authenticate" "" "\fLpam_authenticate\fP \(em request authentication"
.B pam_authenticate(\|)
is called to authenticate the current user.
The user is usually required to enter
a password or similar authentication token depending upon
the authentication service configured within the system.
The user in question should have been specified by a prior call to
.B pam_start(\|)
or
.BR pam_set_item(\|) .
The following flags may be set in the
.IR flags
field:
.RS
.IP PAM_SILENT 35
Authentication service should not generate any messages
.IP PAM_DISALLOW_NULL_AUTHTOK 35
The authentication service should return PAM_AUTH_ERROR
if the user has a null authentication token
.RE
.SH NOTES
.PP
In the case of authentication failures due to an incorrect username
or password, it is the responsibility of the application to retry
.B pam_authenticate(\|)
and to maintain the retry count.
An authentication service module may implement an
internal retry count and return an error
PAM_MAXTRIES
if the module does not want the application to retry.
.LP
If the PAM framework can not load the authentication module, then
it will return PAM_ABORT.
This indicates a serious failure and that
the application should not attempt to retry the authentication.
.LP
For security reasons,
the location of authentication failures is hidden from the user.  
Thus, if several authentication services are stacked and a single
service fails,
.B pam_authenticate(\|)
requires that the user re-authenticate to all the services.
.LP
A null authentication token in the authentication database will
result in successful authentication unless
.SM PAM_DISALLOW_NULL_AUTHTOK
was specified.
In such cases, there will not be any prompting
for the user to enter an authentication token.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
Upon successful completion, PAM_SUCCESS is returned.
In addition to the error return values described in
.BR pam (3),
the following values may be returned:
.RS
.IP PAM_AUTH_ERR 29
Authentication failure
.IP PAM_CRED_INSUFFICIENT 29
Can not access authentication data due to insufficient credentials
.IP PAM_AUTHINFO_UNAVAIL 29
Underlying authentication service can not retrieve authentication information
.IP PAM_USER_UNKNOWN 29
User not known to the underlying authentication module
.IP PAM_MAXTRIES
An authentication service has maintained a retry count which
has been reached. No further retries should be attempted.
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pam (3),
.BR pam_start (3),
.BR pam_open_session (3),
.BR pam_setcred (3)
