.\" $XConsortium: pam_sm_chauthtok.3 /main/5 1996/10/29 15:20:04 drk $
.\" Sccs id goes here
'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
.\" All Rights Reserved
.nr X
.TH pam_sm_chauthtok 3 "9 Jan 1996"
.SH NAME
pam_sm_chauthtok
\- Service provider implementation for pam_chauthtok
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B cc
.RI "[ " "flag" " \|.\|.\|. ] " "file" " \|.\|.\|."
.B \-lpam
.RI "[ " "library" " \|.\|.\|. ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include <security/pam_appl.h>
#include <security/pam_modules.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int pam_sm_chauthtok(pam_handle_t " "*pamh" ,
.BI "const int " "flags");
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "pam_authtok" "" "\fLpam_authtok\fP \(em request changing authentication token"
In response to a call to
.BR pam_chauthtok (3)
the PAM framework calls
.BR pam_sm_chauthtok (3)
from the modules listed in the
.BR pam.conf (4)
file. 
The password management provider
supplies the back-end functionality for
this interface function.
.PP
.B pam_sm_chauthtok(\|)
changes the authentication token associated with a
particular user referenced by the authentication handle,
.IR pamh.
.LP
The following flag may be passed in to
.BR pam_chauthtok(\|) :
.RS
.IP PAM_SILENT 30
The password service should not generate any messages
.IP PAM_CHANGE_EXPIRED_AUTHTOK 30
The password service should only update those passwords that have aged.
If this flag is not passed, the password service should update all passwords.
.IP PAM_PRELIM_CHECK 30
The password service should only perform preliminary checks.
No passwords should be updated.
.IP PAM_UPDATE_AUTHTOK 30
The password service should update passwords
.RE
.LP
Note that PAM_PRELIM_CHECK and PAM_UPDATE_AUTHTOK can not be
set at the same time.
.LP
Upon successful completion of the call, the authentication
token of the user will be ready for change or will be changed
(depending upon the flag)
in accordance with the authentication scheme
configured within the system.
.PP
The
.I argc
argument
represents the number of module options passed in from the configuration file
.BR pam.conf (4).
.I argv
specifies the module options, which are interpreted and processed
by the password management service.  Please refer to the specific
module man pages for the various available
.I options.
.LP
It is the responsibility of
.B pam_sm_chauthtok(\|)
to determine if the new password meets certain strength requirements.
.B pam_sm_chauthtok(\|)
may continue to re-prompt the user (for a limited number of times)
for a new password until the password entered
meets the strength requirements.
.LP
Before returning,
.B pam_sm_chauthtok(\|)
should call 
.B pam_get_item(\|)
and retrieve both PAM_AUTHTOK
and PAM_OLDAUTHTOK. If both are NULL,
.B pam_sm_chauthtok(\|) 
should set them to the new and old passwords
as entered by the user.
.SH NOTES
The
.SM PAM
framework invokes the password services twice.  The first time the modules
are invoked with the flag, PAM_PRELIM_CHECK.
During this stage, the password modules should only perform preliminary
checks (ping remote name services to see if they are
ready for updates, for example).  If a password module
detects a transient error (remote name service temporarily down, for example)
it should return PAM_TRY_AGAIN to the
.SM PAM
framework, which
will immediately return the error back to the application.
If all password modules pass the preliminary check, the
.SM PAM
framework invokes the password services again with the flag,
PAM_UPDATE_AUTHTOK.  During this stage, each password module should
proceed to update the appropriate password.  Any error will again be
reported back to application.
.LP
If a service module receives the flag, PAM_CHANGE_EXPIRED_AUTHTOK,
it should check whether the password has aged or expired.
If the password has aged or expired,
then the service module should proceed to update the password.
If the status indicates that the
password has not yet aged/expired, then the password module
should return PAM_IGNORE.
.LP
If a user's password has aged or expired, a 
.SM PAM
account module could save this information as state
in the authentication handle,
pamh, using
.BR pam_set_data(\|) .
The related password management module could retreive this information
using
.B pam_get_data(\|)
to determine whether or not it should prompt
the user to update the password for this particular module.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
Upon successful completion, PAM_SUCCESS must be returned.
The following values may also be returned:
.RS
.IP PAM_PERM_DENIED 34
No permission
.IP PAM_AUTHTOK_ERR 34
Authentication token manipulation error
.IP PAM_AUTHTOK_RECOVERY_ERR 34
Old authentication token cannot be recovered
.IP PAM_AUTHTOK_LOCK_BUSY 34
Authentication token lock busy
.IP PAM_AUTHTOK_DISABLE_AGING 34
Authentication token aging disabled
.IP PAM_USER_UNKNOWN 34
User unknown to password service
.IP PAM_TRY_AGAIN 34
Preliminary check by password service failed
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pam (3),
.BR pam_chauthtok (3),
.BR pam.conf (4)
