.\" $XConsortium: pam_acct_mgmt.3 /main/5 1996/10/29 15:18:07 drk $
.\" Sccs id goes here
'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
.\" All Rights Reserved
.\" Don't forget to enter .IX index entries for each function.
.nr X
.TH pam_acct_mgmt 3 "9 Jan 1996"
.SH NAME
pam_acct_mgmt
\- perform PAM account validation procedures
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B cc
.RI "[ " "flag" " \|.\|.\|. ] " "file" " \|.\|.\|."
.B \-lpam
.RI "[ " "library" " \|.\|.\|. ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include <security/pam_appl.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int pam_acct_mgmt(pam_handle_t *" "pamh" ,
.BI "int " "flags");
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function
.B pam_acct_mgmt(\|)
is called to determine if the current user's account is
valid.  This includes checking for password and account expiration,
as well as verifying access hour restrictions.  This function
is typically called after the user has been authenticated
with
.BR pam_authenticate (3).
.LP
The
.IR pamh
argument
is an authentication handle obtained by a prior call to
.BR pam_start(\|) .
The following flags may be set in the
.IR flags
field:
.RS
.IP PAM_SILENT 28
The account management service should not generate any messages
.IP PAM_DISALLOW_NULL_AUTHTOK 28
The account management service should return 
.SM PAM_AUTHTOKEN_REQD
if the user has a null authentication token
.RE
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
Upon successful completion, PAM_SUCCESS is returned.
In addition to the error return values described in
.BR pam (3),
the following values may be returned:
.RS
.IP PAM_USER_UNKNOWN 28
User not known to underlying account management module
.IP PAM_AUTH_ERR 28
Authentication failure
.IP PAM_AUTHTOKEN_REQD 28
New authentication token required. This is normally returned if the machine
security policies require that the password should be changed because
the password is NULL or it has aged.
.IP PAM_ACCT_EXPIRED 28
User account has expired
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pam (3),
.BR pam_start (3),
.BR pam_authenticate (3)
