.\" $XConsortium: pam_sm_acct_mgmt.3 /main/5 1996/10/29 15:19:45 drk $
.\" Sccs id goes here
'\"macro stdmacro
.\" Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc. 
.\" All Rights Reserved
.\" Don't forget to enter .IX index entries for each function.
.nr X
.TH pam_sm_acct_mgmt 3 "9 Jan 1996"
.SH NAME
pam_sm_acct_mgmt
\- Service provider implementation for pam_acct_mgmt
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
.B cc
.RI "[ " "flag" " \|.\|.\|. ] " "file" " \|.\|.\|."
.B \-lpam
.RI "[ " "library" " \|.\|.\|. ]"
.LP
.nf
.ft 3
#include <security/pam_appl.h>
#include <security/pam_modules.h>
.ft
.fi
.LP
.BI "int pam_sm_acct_mgmt(pam_handle_t *" "pamh" ,
.BI "int " "flags" ,
.BI "int " "argc",
.BI "const char **" "argv" );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "pam_sm_acct_mgmt" "" "\fLpam_sm_acct_mgmt\fP \(em account management"
In response to a call to
.BR pam_acct_mgmt (3),
the PAM framework calls 
.B pam_sm_acct_mgmt(\|)
from the modules listed in the
.BR pam.conf (4)
file.
The account management provider supplies the back-end functionality for
this interface function.
The applications should not call this API directly.
.PP
The function,
.BR pam_sm_acct_mgmt(\|) ,
determines whether the current user's account and password are valid.  
This includes checking for password
and account expiration, valid log-in times, etc.
The user in question is specified by a prior call to
.BR pam_start(\|) ,
and is referenced by the authentication handle,
.IR pamh, 
which is passed as the first argument to
.B pam_sm_acct_mgmt(\|).
The following flags may be set in the
.IR flags
field:
.RS
.IP PAM_SILENT 30
The account management service should not generate any messages
.IP PAM_DISALLOW_NULL_AUTHTOK 30
The account management service should return PAM_AUTHTOKEN_REQD
if the user has a null authentication token
.RE
.PP
The
.I argc
argument
represents the number of module options passed in from the configuration file
.BR pam.conf (4).
.I argv
specifies the module options, which are interpreted and processed
by the account management service.  Please refer to the specific
module man pages for the various available
.I options.
If an unknown option is passed to the module, an error should be
logged through
.BR syslog (3)
and the option ignored.
.PP
If an account management module determines that the user
password has aged or expired, it should save this information
as state in the authentication handle,
.I pamh,
using 
.BR pam_set_data(\|) .
.B pam_chauthok(\|)
uses this information to determine which passwords have
expired.
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.PP
If there are no restrictions to logging in, PAM_SUCCESS is returned.
The following error values may also be returned upon error:
.RS
.IP PAM_USER_UNKNOWN 30
User not known to underlying authentication module
.IP PAM_AUTHTOKEN_REQD 30
New authentication token required
.IP PAM_ACCT_EXPIRED 30
User account has expired
.IP PAM_PERM_DENIED 30
User denied access to account at this time
.IP PAM_IGNORE 30
Ignore underlying account module regardless of whether the control
flag is
.I required, optional
or
.I sufficient
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pam (3),
.BR pam_acct_mgmt (3),
.BR syslog (3),
.BR pam.conf (4)
